APM > .NET > Restructure Setup docs (#11627)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/setup_overview/setup/dotnet-core.md

</div>

### Installation overview

1. Install the tracer
2. Enable the tracer for your service
3. Configure the Datadog Agent for APM
4. View your live data

### Install the tracer

The Datadog .NET Tracer can be installed machine-wide to allow services across an entire machine to be instrumented, or it can be installed on a per-application-basis to allow developers to manage the instrumentation via the application’s dependencies. To see machine-wide installation options, view the Windows or Linux tab. To see per-application installation options, see the NuGet tab.

{{< tabs >}}

{{% tab "Windows" %}}

To install the .NET Tracer:

1. Download the [.NET Tracer MSI installer][1]. Select the MSI installer for the architecture that matches the operating system (x64 or x86).

2. Run the .NET Tracer MSI installer with administrator privileges.

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet/releases
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Linux" %}}

To install the .NET Tracer:

1. Download the latest [.NET Tracer package][1] that supports your operating system and architecture.

2. Once downloaded, install the package with one of the commands below:

> ```bash

Author: This section was adapted from the in-app docs and put into one code block for brevity, similar to the PHP's [extension installation section](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/setup/php?tab=containers#install-the-extension). This can be reverted to the separate code blocks that we had before if that's preferred

Reviewer: I wonder if we should include the "Run the `/opt/datadog/createLogPath.sh` script" section in these commands - I've seen several cases where people haven't, and I think this would improve onboarding?

Author: This is a good idea. I updated it with a revision, let me know what you think

Reviewer: I like it, but [I wonder if a one-liner would be better](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/11627/files#r705240623) (It's easier & better to copy into to Docker files for example).

As an aside, we need to update our in-app docs for linux host installs, as they don't mention this step at all!

1. [Install the tracer][8]
2. [Enable the tracer for your service][9]
3. [Configure the Datadog Agent for APM][10]
4. [View your live data][11]

### Install the tracer

The Datadog .NET Tracer can be installed machine-wide to allow services across an entire machine to be instrumented, or it can be installed on a per-application-basis to allow developers to manage the instrumentation via the application’s dependencies. To see machine-wide installation options, view the Windows or Linux tab. To see per-application installation options, see the NuGet tab.

{{< tabs >}}

{{% tab "Windows" %}}

To install the .NET Tracer:

1. Download the [.NET Tracer MSI installer][1]. Select the MSI installer for the architecture that matches the operating system (x64 or x86).

2. Run the .NET Tracer MSI installer with administrator privileges.

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet/releases
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Linux" %}}

To install the .NET Tracer:

1. Download the latest [.NET Tracer package][1] that supports your operating system and architecture.

2. Once downloaded, install the package with one of the commands below:

```bash
# For Debian or Ubuntu, install the DEB package

> sudo dpkg -i ./datadog-dotnet-apm_<TRACER_VERSION>_amd64.deb
> /opt/datadog/createLogPath.sh # Creates the .NET Tracer log directory with the appropriate permissions at /var/log/datadog/dotnet

Reviewer: I would probably make these a one-liner (as more likely for people to copy it correctly). What do you think? e.g.
```suggestion
# and create the .NET Tracer log directory with the appropriate permissions at /var/log/datadog/dotnet
sudo dpkg -i ./datadog-dotnet-apm_<TRACER_VERSION>_amd64.deb && /opt/datadog/createLogPath.sh 
```

Author: Yeah this is a good idea. Done in the latest commits

net start w3svc
```

#### Services not in IIS

##### Required environment variables

```
CORECLR_ENABLE_PROFILING=1
CORECLR_PROFILER={846F5F1C-F9AE-4B07-969E-05C26BC060D8}
```

##### Application restart

For standalone applications and Windows services, manually restart the application as you normally would.

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Linux" %}}

##### Required environment variables

```
CORECLR_ENABLE_PROFILING=1
CORECLR_PROFILER={846F5F1C-F9AE-4B07-969E-05C26BC060D8}
CORECLR_PROFILER_PATH=/opt/datadog/Datadog.Trace.ClrProfiler.Native.so
DD_INTEGRATIONS=/opt/datadog/integrations.json
DD_DOTNET_TRACER_HOME=/opt/datadog
```

##### Application restart

For standalone applications, manually restart the application as you normally would.

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "NuGet" %}}

##### Required environment variables

```
CORECLR_ENABLE_PROFILING=1
CORECLR_PROFILER={846F5F1C-F9AE-4B07-969E-05C26BC060D8}
CORECLR_PROFILER_PATH=<System-dependent path>

> DD_INTEGRATIONS=<APP_DIRECTORY>/integrations.json
> DD_DOTNET_TRACER_HOME=<APP_DIRECTORY>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DD_INTEGRATIONS=<APP_DIRECTORY>/datadog/integrations.json
DD_DOTNET_TRACER_HOME=<APP_DIRECTORY>/datadog
```

```

The value for the `CORECLR_PROFILER_PATH` environment variable will vary based on the system where the application is running. See the following table for the appropriate path:

Operating System and Process Architecture | CORECLR_PROFILER_PATH Value
------------------------------------------|----------------------------
Alpine Linux x64 | `<APP_DIRECTORY>/datadog/linux-musl-x64/Datadog.Trace.ClrProfiler.Native.so`
Linux x64        | `<APP_DIRECTORY>/datadog/linux-x64/Datadog.Trace.ClrProfiler.Native.so`
Linux ARM64      | `<APP_DIRECTORY>/datadog/linux-arm64/Datadog.Trace.ClrProfiler.Native.so`

> Windows x64      | `<APP_DIRECTORY>/datadog/win-x64/Datadog.Trace.ClrProfiler.Native.dll`

Reviewer: The `/` won't be an issue on Windows will it (i.e. should it be `\`? 🤔 If not, then it's probably best to leave as-is, as it avoids potential escaping issues (i.e. `\\`)

Author: I think you're right that `/` may be an issue. Changing it to `\` should be better, even if there is a potential escaping issue

Author: Updated with `\` in the latest set of commits

2. In your application code, access the global tracer through the `Datadog.Trace.Tracer.Instance` property to create new spans.

[1]: https://www.nuget.org/packages/Datadog.Trace
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Linux" %}}

<div class="alert alert-warning">
  <strong>Note:</strong> If you are using both automatic and custom instrumentation, it is important to keep the package versions (for example, MSI and NuGet) in sync.
</div>

To use custom instrumentation in your .NET application:
1. Add the `Datadog.Trace` [NuGet package][1] to your application.
2. In your application code, access the global tracer through the `Datadog.Trace.Tracer.Instance` property to create new spans.

[1]: https://www.nuget.org/packages/Datadog.Trace
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "NuGet" %}}

To use custom instrumentation in your .NET application:
1. In your application code, access the global tracer through the `Datadog.Trace.Tracer.Instance` property to create new spans.

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

For additional details on custom instrumentation and custom tagging, see the [.NET Custom Instrumentation documentation][3].

## Configuring process environment variables

### Windows

> #### Windows services

Reviewer: Minor point, but I was wondering if we should a little explainer that this is only "how to configure env vars", and that the previous section describes _what_ environment variables to set?

Author: I've updated the text, let me know what you think

Reviewer: LGTM!
